Introduction to Python for Machine Learning/AI Engineering (Part I)
Why does everyone love Python so much? The answer is here!
In 2022, Python surpassed all other programming languages to become the most popular language in the world! That’s a pretty big title, but what makes it so useful? And why is it the favorite programming language of many (though not all) Data Scientists?
By the end of this unit, you’ll have hands-on experience with the power of Python!
Python is flexible, adaptable, and oh so powerful. It can often feel so intuitive that it seems like you’re just writing English. But it takes some time to get to that feeling, and getting a handle on the basics is the first step on your Python for Data Science journey.
Like all programming languages, Python has some very specific and logical rules. This unit introduces those foundational concepts and prepares you to be able to write simple programs to process data.
What will Python Fundamentals for Machine Learning/AI Engineering cover?
After this unit, you will be able to:
Write Python programs
Manage programs using if/else statements
Store data using Python lists
Iterate over lists of data using loops and list comprehensions
Install and work with Python 3, Jupyter Notebook, and iPython on your own computer
Create a portfolio project to show off your work!
Why did we build this?
Python is the most popular programming language for Machine Learning/AI Engineers, and having a solid foundation in the basic logic will pay dividends in your journey.
From this point forward, we will be working mostly in Python. After this unit, we will focus on specific things you can do with Python, such as manipulate, clean, and visualize data. But you have to build a Python foundation first, so without further ado, let’s jump in!
What else should I know about this course?
We’ve created a lot of review content to help you hone your Python programming skills. That content is NOT in this path. However, you can practice your Python skills on the Code Challenges page for additional practice.
Who are my classmates?
Learning is social. Whatever you’re working on, be sure to connect with the Codecademy community in the forums. Remember to check in with the community regularly, including for things like asking for code reviews on your project work and providing code reviews to others in the projects category, which can help to reinforce what you’ve learned.